$SOURCE$
http://www.combatveteranswithptsd.org/blog/archives/12-2014
$TEXT$
It's been a while since I've written a blog post.  For that, again, I am truly sorry.  I never intended to go this long, but one of the first things to go when PTSD and depression are starting to get away from you is your accurate sense of the passage of time.
When the holiday season started, I thought I was dealing well with the end of my marriage.  I was focused, motivated, and very dedicated to my daughter.  I was going to the gym and training in MMA twice per week.  I was enjoying my job and thriving.
Things changed so subtly that I only noticed how depression and PTSD had started creeping in on the edges until things were dangerously close to a tipping point that would have seen me spiraling back into a very dark place.
On Christmas Eve, I had to take my daughter to her mother's house.  Caley was communicating effectively how much she was grieving that mom and dad were no longer together and it hit me like a ton of bricks.  When I woke up on Christmas day, I could feel the depression pushing the walls in.  I closed myself into my apartment and pushed back with all of my might.
I thought about everything that I have been through over the past few years.  I focused on how much progress I've made.  I looked at what I have been able to accomplish, despite the PTSD.  More importantly, I focused on how I have managed things since my wife said she wanted a divorce.
Logically, I knew I should be heartened by what I have been able to accomplish.  So why didn't my feelings match what I have been able to provide for myself and for my daughter?  For those of you who are familiar with my blog, you know by now that blogging helps me to articulate what I am feeling and why.  Writing out how I am feeling, in general, has that effect.
Well, on Christmas Eve, I had received a Facebook message from a friend, sending me best wishes and hoping that I was doing OK.  I responded with an outflowing of emotion and then, because of the nature of PTSD, summarily forgot that I had written her back until half way through the day on the 26th.  Here's what I wrote her:
thank you for reaching out. It's been a bit dark for me in recent weeks, since the holidays started. I'm really struggling. I just want to curl up in a hole and I'm fighting the depression with everything I have. The sad part: it's been a slow creep. A death by a thousand cuts, emotionally. I have so much to live for and be proud of but I can't see the forest through the trees right now. I'm about to step into my parents' house to fill them in. You have no idea how much it means to me that you checked in. I hope you have a very merry Christmas. I'll be sending out an email to fill everyone in, since I've been silent for a bit. I am going to need support getting through the next few months, as the divorce gets finalized. I know I can be honest with you so I'll say it. I'm ashamed. Ashamed my marriage failed. Ashamed I can't keep the depression in check. Ashamed I haven't kept up with my blogging. Ashamed. Ashamed. Ashamed. I shudder to think where I'd be right now if it wasn't for my amazing family and friends like you.
The crazy thing is that I barely remember writing this or discussing what I wrote in it with my parents until I saw the response from my friend on Facebook.
You are right Max you do have so much to live for and be proud of, a great deal, more than most! I wanted to check in several times but at the same time want to respect your need for space. You may always reach out anytime you need someone, even if it's just to listen, share a meal, walk and talk, whatever... YOU HAVE NOTHING TO BE ASHAMED OF, trust me when I tell you that forgiving yourself is a must, you need to allow yourself forgiveness because we are all only human trying to get through what can often be a hard and difficult path, it's ok that life doesn't work out like we thought, or that the path we were on changes, as hard as it is for you at this moment I promise you that you will understand at one point in your life and you will know you went through all of this to get through it, I know you will because you didn't get this far without having that courage and strength. I can not ever say I understand what you are dealing with because I have not lived your life, but I can tell you that you don't ever need to go through any of it alone, you have too many people Max who care... Please enjoy the joy of your family, of your daughter and have a blessed Christmas. 2015 is a year for opportunities and growth and love... Merry Christmas!
Sometimes, all you need is a little validation from a friend.  If you are a friend of someone with PTSD, please read what was written by my friend above.  She never claims to understand what I am going through but she validates my emotions while gently reinforcing the positive and forcing me to evaluate the truthfulness of the negative emotions that I was feeling.
Her words were exactly what I needed to hear.  It allowed me to safely distance myself from the volatility of my emotions and figure out what exactly had transpired over the past few months that had landed me on the cusp of full-blown despair.
Here's how insidious PTSD and depression can be, even when they are being well managed:
It started off slowly.  At MMA, I started cutting out after one hour.  Then I started losing motivation to go one of the two nights attended every week.  Then, I stopped going altogether.  I try to look back to see when the last time was that I went, but I can't remember.
I lost the motivation to get up early to go to the gym.  Pretty soon, I wasn't going to the gym at all anymore.  Again, I can't remember the last time I went to the gym.
I sat down on multiple occasions to try to write blog posts.  My mind was blank.  Things were bothering me, but I couldn't find a way to start writing.  It was a horrible writer's block.  I wasn't even aware of how long it had been since I had last written a post.
I started having more and more frequent nightmares.  It severely disrupted my sleep patterns, leading to significant insomnia and irritability.
I started focusing almost obsessively on my work.  I couldn't shut my brain down.
I started smoking more heavily.
I stopped making time to get things rolling for the non-profit.
The final straw was the way I caught myself emotionally withdrawing (slightly, not in a significant way) from my daughter on Christmas Eve.  When I realized what was going on, I became acutely aware of how I was feeling and it was overwhelming.
What's so frustrating is that, in 20/20 hindsight, it's all so clear.  Why couldn't I see it when it was all happening?  I mean, I was in a good place.  I effectively managing my PTSD triggers and was devoted to my daughter (still am).  So why, WHY, am I sitting here writing this blog post?  How did I get here?
Well, I have a choice to make.  Learn from this and move forward to correct all of the things I am not doing to effectively cope, or I can disappear again.
Not much of a choice if you ask me.
I'm spending the rest of the holiday season resting and relaxing and relishing every moment I have with my daughter.  Once 2015 begins, time to rededicate myself to doing the things I need and love doing.
All I know is that I have never been so grateful for the amazing family and friends I have in my life.
It's time to focus on the things that are working and fixing the things are aren't.
Here's to the New Year...

$SOURCE$
http://couragebeyond.org/warrior-post-ptsd-and-suffering/
$TEXT$
DEC 02 2015 I have heard a lot of words used to describe PTSD: “tragic”, “heartbreaking”, “scary”, “pitiful”. The more I heard them, the more I believed those words. The more I used them about myself. I can’t tell you how many times I have said, “I ‘suffer’ from PTSD.” But the more I thought about it, the less I feel like I am suffering. The less those words remotely speak for me. However, I feel it is necessary to add that I certainly can not and will not speak for everyone who has PTSD. I can only speak for me.
Mirriam Webster defines suffering as, “pain that is caused by injury, illness, loss, etc. : physical, mental, or emotional pain, sufferings : feelings of pain.” Something about that definition doesn’t sit well with me. Maybe it’s the way people apply the word suffering to someone with PTSD. The media makes me feel like because I have PTSD, I should be sitting in a corner drooling on myself. Or that anyone with PTSD is a danger to society.
I am also keenly aware that when PTSD is at its worst, it feels like you are being eaten alive from the inside out. Although that certainly fits the definition of suffering, the reason I don’t like to say that I am suffering is because my PTSD is more emotionally based and I have learned that, although they are painful, my emotions won’t kill me. Only my actions would. This is a personal decision I have made: to avoid using the term suffering. There may be thousands of other veterans that feel differently than I do. Shouldn’t that be the point? That we all have our own stories? Our own way we choose to describe who we are?
Not someone else.
The most important part of PTSD is that each person’s traumatic events are different, so each person will react differently in any given situation. Here is an example of my PTSD in a nutshell:
A couple of weeks ago I drove the kids to school. I travelled on the same road that I drive each day and passed the same houses and many of the same people doing their morning routine. But last Friday I noticed something. A box that had been upright and open on the side of the road all week was different. It had been rotated, and the lid was closed.
My brain immediately told me that someone had placed an empty box there and conditioned everyone to get used to seeing it as they travel their usual route. It’s a typical technique used by people who emplace explosives on the side of the roads.
And it is crazy making.
In my head, I had several options at that point:
Stop the car and both lanes of traffic and walk around to see if there are any wires or people hiding in the bushes.
Swerve to the other lane, but then I ran the risk of swerving from a decoy explosive (the box) and getting blown up by the real explosive on the other side of the road. (The one that certainly had to be there—somewhere).
Try to snap out of it and realize I am not in Iraq. Or Afghanistan.
It all happened so quickly. So I chose to breathe deeply, grip the steering wheel and continue driving. Nothing happened as I passed the box.
But the PTSD inside me was triggered.
I felt it building. I could taste an acrid bitterness in the back of my mouth. I felt the constant tingling in the back of my head and the tense feelings in my continuously balled fists. I felt hate in the bottom of my throat.
I hated lots of things – boxes, people, cell phones, cars.
But I still wasn’t suffering. I was living through a trigger and looking for a way to process the rage.
The week following the “box” incident consisted of 3 hours of sleep each night, nightmares, anger towards anyone around me, and sudden urges to break things. All of those things eventually subsided.
And I know I will start the cycle over again at some point.
There are times when I don’t feel like I belong in certain places and days when I am scared to be in public.
But there are also times when I am perfectly content with everything in my life.
I see my PTSD as more of a unique problem that I have to deal with, but it’s not actually killing me so I won’t say that I am suffering. The dictionary definition definitely applies to me, but my main point is that I don’t like for anyone but me to tell me how I feel. Rather than applying a cookie cutter formula to any veteran with PTSD (PTSD=suffering), perhaps a simple solution would be to ask each individual how he feels about his unique story. His triggers. Remove the assumption of suffering, and leave it up to the individual to determine how he feels.
Then, give him the space to be honest about that.

$SOURCE$
http://ptsdasoldiersperspective.blogspot.com/2016/02/veteran-on-edge.html
$TEXT$
This post is inspired by reading Patience Mason's PTSD Blog about her new book idea. She asks, "Reality is that most people who come back from war, or survive another trauma, are not fine, so if that might fit you, here are some questions to think about: How or why might you be fucked up?"
Dear Joe Public,
I would doubt you were in the military or a veteran if you could not recite two or more times a curious and insensitive clod trampled through your trauma to relive his boyhood romanticized thriller of the military life.
For the insensitive thinking that leads a stranger to ask intimate questions, and then discount my story because it does not match the official narrative. Even though most know the television and government lies about everything.
I am not fine. Why the fuck would you expect me to be? Because my war was a little war and does not matter? I hear this all too often, recently and even from veterans.
I am angry and full of rage when not numb or heavily medicated. Hear my witness, in three days my brigade killed over 24,000 Iraqi soldiers under the Desert Storm.
When I got home the idiot box repeaters called me a liar further altering people's perceptions of me as unstable. Caregivers know the safest people in the world are standing next to veterans with PTSD.
When I got home it took filing seven times with the Veterans Administration to get a 0% service connected rating for hearing loss.
In 2005 unchecked PTSD led me to get stabbed in the face and precipitated a crisis. Hospitalized for two weeks in psychic ward and then transferred to a two-year intensive treatment center for veterans.
It took the ninth case, to get a 30% rating for PTSD. Without the support from the treatment center I would not be alive or have a stable life.
Fast forward past the bouts of homelessness, and over 12 hospitalizations for suicidal ideation, in 2007 and the eleventh case, I was finally awarded an 80% service connection for PTSD, hearing loss and tinnitus. Which seriously exacerbates PTSD and infuses the flashbacks and hallucinations with sound, when I am doing deaf.
Do not ever forget. I participated and witnessed in a massacre. For I cannot. My mother shared stories of our great-great grandmother walking the Trail of Tears as a child. I now know her level of sorrow, a lost Cherokee of an unknown clan, branded with genocide where the past meets the present.
Today, if I make perfect financial decisions every month I can barely get by. But, I am not only human and prone to the same mistakes and stresses everyone faces. That is a base for a veteran with combat PTSD, MST and TBI, welcome to our good day. Now heap on hyperstress and crippling anxiety that literally makes your skin crawl. Welcome to our good day. For a great day, heap on cannabis. I don't make enough money to have that the whole month though.
Why the fuck would I shoot bullet eyes when you ask, "Are you okay?" No, I am on the edge. Are you ready to listen?

$SOURCE$
http://ptsdasoldiersperspective.blogspot.com/2014/06/satisfied-with-my-best-effort-syndrome.html
$TEXT$
This last Saturday I failed to finish my second attempt at a 100 mile race.
As I winded through the repeated switchbacks on the TARC 100 from mile twenty five to thirty I became increasingly aware that I was more and more disoriented. After three years of ultra running I had manage the first 85 degree day of the year as well as any central Maine resident could. Because of the heat I started cramping at ten miles, and I troubleshooted it with extra water, electrolyte pills and more calories than I could stand in the heat. I was strong physically but every time I ran I would heat up and cramp, but after I hit the marathon mark I started getting disoriented. Heat cramps were rapidly turning into heat exhaustion, but if I could only make it to the night I might have a chance...
My Ranger brain was on point, I was outside myself worrying about my weakening cognition. My limbic system in was kicking ass despite my cortex being massacred by the heat. I was both dizzy, less aware of my location on a map, as well as outside of myself and increasingly aware that failing to make it to the next aid station might be dangerous. In other situations I might have tried to take a more direct course towards support,  but I knew that I was not reliable enough to do my own navigation. I was paradoxically disoriented and present at the same time. In my miserable state I had enough composure to know that I could no longer trust myself to do anything but keep moving on the course. Despite being delirious at thirty miles they were able to drop my core temp, by spraying me with a hose, and after sitting for five minutes drinking all I could and being offered ice (which was only available for medical issues). I ran some more.
I had trained hard, and instantly picked up my pace passing several runners that transitioned better in the aid station. However, I drank my water bottles so fast that I was out of water more than a mile away from the next aid station. I kept saying to myself "when are the fifty miler runners going to pass me" but everyone was crippled by the same heat. This mile and a quarter took thirty minutes, and the dizziness returned. Dehydrated I tried to rally again, but I couldn't seem to cool down. When a medic cooled me down I nearly went into hypothermia, and was advised to call it a day. I obliged without regrets.
In  the days that have followed I have not been disappointed because, when you give your best effort and fail, there is nothing to be unsatisfied about. My Fitbit sensor recorded 4690 ft of elevation gain and 35 miles of running. My worst day was ten hours of running, and was still something to be proud of. Subsequently looking at the stats also made it apparent that I ran precisely according to my plans, based on my steps per minute. Typically I would have covered 42-5 miles and would have arrived at aids stations more rapidly.
I am not a fan of PTSD as an excuse, but taking diarrhetic medications for PTSD and mTBI has make heat especially hard for me to regulate my temperature in the summer.  I also have a history of heat injuries of high dosages of antibiotics in Ranger School for cellulitis, and the high heat of swamp patrol, made me pass out with heat exhaustion during a long movement in Florida. On my second ultra I had similar issues only to spend three days in the hospital with rhabdo. PTSD is also linked to inflammation that compounds heat regulation. This is not an excuse, it is something that makes me proud to have fought so hard for the thirty five miles I managed to complete rather than disappointed about the sixty five miles that never could have been on a day like that. This year it did not heat up until my rest period so there was no way to employ my more typical stadium run for heat management, though in the winter I trained inside with maximum gear to train for the June race. I hiked easy for ten miles in Acadia last Saturday and walked Darby during the hottest part of the day (there were streams and rivers for him) all week, but my acclimatization did not help at all.
Still to have the maturity to listen to my body, recognize a bad day and make a stronger attempt in the fall, or winter when it is more healthy. Being confident and aware of my limitations is as important never accepting those limitations as permanent immovable burdens. Letting my lesson be that I need to try in the winter and start with smaller distances in the summer is not giving up finishing a race on my worst days, rather for me it is learning my limits and moving forward.
Most importantly when I was on the edge of passing out with heat exhaustion my overly capable limbic system reminded me the ways that all the stigmatized "PTSD Symptoms" are so useful in times of real danger. PTSD or as I like to call it the Syndrome of Survival still works when your life is on the line. I wouldn't wish those moments on anyone so please learn my lesson, and let my miserable failed attempted at 100 miles remind you that PTSD ultimately kept us alive when we needed it too. All of that of our baggage comes from strengths and is still a resource during an actual crisis. You don't have to be as crazy as I am by running ultra distances to learn how to yield the fruits of trauma as well as the sorrow.

$SOURCE$
http://ptsdsurvivordaily.com/2013/03/10-f_cking-years-the-toll-so-far-and-ptsd/
$TEXT$
10 f_cking years.
The images floating through my news stream were surreal yesterday. It was full of dusty pics from disposable cameras depicting steely eyed killers ready to cross the berm in hulking tanks and personnel carriers. At that moment in time we did not know how simple life was, nor how complicated it was about to become, for us.
I remember wandering around Camp Casey still wondering what the future would bring. I joined OIF I in August as a replacement. Like a jackass, I reasoned if I didn’t get into this fight quick, it would be over before it began and <gasp> my fiancé would have a combat patch and I <gulp> would not have combat “experience”.
Some days I wish I could reach back through time and slap myself.
That idea, which was fairly common, is one that is worthy of 10 slaps.
Here I am today, still a jackass, but hopefully in the right ways. I am a little wiser, but more so, humbled by those experiences. At this point, I would not trade my experiences for anything. The perspective I now hold as a Veteran is invaluable. It grounds me from the rash decisions, yet stokes the fire to challenge my limits and live life more completely.
I have said this before, but not long ago I would have traded for ten minutes of reprieve from my thoughts and nightmares. It was on the fringe of being unbearable. But I had help. I had support. I still have the help and support.
Since I wrote my last post one hundred and ninety eight Veterans will have taken their life. Ten years on and we are killing ourselves at a faster rate than we died in combat.
198.
I stare at that number and it is staggering.
There are so many great organizations that are helping. IAVA is storming Capitol Hill. Team RWB is joining with Team Rubicon to raise awareness.
How are we not connecting these dots? How are we not stemming this tide?
Here is our multiplication table.
One Month: 270 – Two Infantry Companies
Three Months: 810 – A Battalion
Six Months: 1,620 – 1/10th the population of Babylon, New York
One Year: 3,240 – 50% more than the sum of the next four graduating classes of Linenhurst Senior High School.
I aim to fight this. The suicides have touched my life too much already. So my continued action, besides this blog, is to participate in a 5k walk to raise awareness.
Can you take a walk with me?
9 more tomorrow.

$SOURCE$
http://maps1175.blogspot.com/2011/12/ptsd.html
$TEXT$
PTSD
I find the fact that war can do so much damage to even the most well developed and strong  psyche that we actually have allowed PTSD into our national lexicon. It's so hard to explain and actually define. I mean sure, there is a CLINICAL definition for it, but when was the last time you ever heard a veteran wax eloquent about what the inner workings of his/her mind? Putting a description together is like typing a manuscript in sand, trying to finish before the tide rolls in.
That being said, I've heard several descriptions. One person told me it's like a house you KNOW you live in but some rooms are locked and every time you get the key the lock is changed. I was told by my 1SG from this tour it's like keeping an angry little man in a cage and every now and then you poke him. These descriptions and several others range from one end of the spectrum to another. The only middle ground comes from the feeling of desperation and uncertainty, longing for what was all the while reconciling the fact that what was is no longer there. See, in losing a part of yourself somewhere, you always keep it in the back of your mind that you can return and in returning, reclaim what you've lost. But it's not that simple...and even if it were, I can now never go back there. Never try to make myself whole again. Never have a chance to balance my Karma against that which I've done.
Watching yesterday as we officially Cased the Colors and ended our Iraqi operations, I was struck by a feeling of apathy and longing, an incessant, insatiable need to have it not end. As I watched places I'd seen hundreds of times on missions or the simple day to day I realized what has been the defining factor of my life the past 4 and a half years is now resigned to the annals of history. How does one retcon history to fix their own mistakes of the past? My story, like so many others, is but a thread in a larger tapestry still unwound and unsewn. I sat transfixed and gripped by an intense feeling of both anger and detachment as this was merely a story in the ongoing news cycle. Like a lost love or death of a person close to your heart, the emptiness left now has a name.
What makes the whole matter worse is that we basically accomplished nothing there. We toppled a monster and his progeny only to create a vacuum into which others will gladly fill. We lost so many lives of dedicated military personnel and and the wounds, both physical AND mental, are legion. When looking at the lives of all the Iraqi civilians lost it makes one wonder and question what righteous path were we on? I watched one President state "Mission Accomplished" while another now waxes poignantly about his role in the wars end. But it never does end, not for us, not for the veterans. As a child I watched in wonder as the veterans of Vietnam had that quiet detachment, that look as though there was a missing piece they would never find. Now...I understand it. I not only understand it, I live it. My neighbor is a Vietnam vet. He endured the horrors of the war as an 11B. To this day, he carries the mental scars of that war. Beside the fact that we're neighbors, we're also brothers. Sharing in a kinship that only those who've seen war and combat can understand. I'm not about to deliver the whole St. Crispin's Day speech here, but there does exist a bond of brotherhood amongst all of us.
I accept the fact that my perspective is forever altered. I accept the fact my nights will always be a gamble of sleep vs. nightmares. I accept that I actually seek to not be recognized for things done in name of God and country, deftly yet uncomfortably deflecting the "thank you for your service" comments. I accept the state of my emotions as being like the sea, constantly rolling and never settling. I accept all of these things. But in accepting this, I can still never find the peace of mind that eludes me,nor can I find the PIECE of mind either. And that, I am afraid, is the truest definition of PTSD. Or at least the closest I can get to it.

$SOURCE$
http://gawker.com/ptsd-and-me-true-stories-from-military-veterans-1167107848
$TEXT$
I am a veteran of several trips to Iraq.
I have been diagnosed with fairly severe PTSD (I can still function and work(some days I have to go and sit in my car because I just feel out of control of my own emotions(God bless my boss who knows about my situation but employs me and covers for me), but there are usually several days a month where my wife has to make sure she and my toddler son basically need to stay away from me because I can get pretty emotionally unstable for reasons I still can't explain because I have yet to really put a better finger on my triggers). After leaving the military, I spent almost a decade fucking, fighting, and having random emotionally erratic episodes and just chalking it up to drinking (I became a drunk) and partying (my family and friends noticed a marked difference in me, but were too worried to mention it to me (temper issues)).
It wasn't until I left my psycho, alcoholic ex-gf (nothing worse than living in a co-dependent bubble that you don't even know you're in), that I found someone (my wife) and I learned normal human fucking behavior and how love should actually work. I cut back on my partying and stopped fighting (still working on the drinking), but when my wife got pregnant I started to have REALLY LOW lows (did some things I am not proud of over there. You really can't explain what it is like to do certain things unless your audience has some experience with it, and it is also kind of heart breaking (I took no joy in it) to try and explain those things to an audience that likely has no sympathy for it and nor should they), and called the Veteran's Crisis Line when I felt I wasn't worth a damn as a parent/human and didn't deserve a healthy wife, child and family (I can't emphasize how great this number is if you really need help or just someone to talk to: 1-800-273-8255 24/7) because I was just completely lost.
The following Monday I was contacted by the nearest Vet Center (They offer help and/or counseling for mental issues or aid with disability claims) and was immediately offered weekly visits with a social worker (wonderful lady). That social worker eventually got me into weekly (psychologist) and quarterly (psychiatrist, but they are very busy trying to regulate people's meds) visits with the VA.
Ever since I started seeing these people I have gotten better. It was slow at first(several months before results) because it took some time for me to build trust to be able to share my experiences in a vulnerable and truthful manner (for those that haven't been in therapy, it can be a real bitch to REALLY open yourself up to a stranger and hope they don't tear you apart and judge you, which counselors damn near never do, but the fear is there all the same). But after a lot of time, talking, and drugs (I am currently on depression, sleep, and mood meds and I haven't felt this normal since I left the military, which brings me to my next point).
I also attend group meetings that deal with PTSD and other assorted issues (they have separate groups mostly, but sometimes they have to combine then due to lack of budget), and you can't begin to understand what people have gone through in the military (non-combat related) unless you sit in those rooms and hear first-hand some of the most gut-wrenching, soul-sickening stories you could imagine, and that leads to a lot of this:
Many veterans are over/undermedicated due to the huge overflow of vets thanks to the recent wars and the vets still living after the previous ones, combined with underfunding from the government. Like I mentioned above, I get to see my psychiatrist (drugs) at most once every 3 months for 30-60 minutes.It is just enough for him to figure out how I am dealing with my meds and whether to tweak them or not. It would be easy to have a negative opinion after reading that previous statement, but they are so overwhelmed by patients that they are basically plugging the Hoover Dam with their head and drowning. There are literally schizophrenic vets wandering the waiting room on a slightly regular basis.
I commend every last employee/volunteer I've ever run into in my year+ of dealing with the VA/Vet Center.
I filed for disability about a year ago and am just now getting ready to go in for my PTSD disability interview (it is a visit separate from my other VA visits pertaining to legitimate mental health sessions (though the guy I get to meet for one time does have access to their notes). Trust me, the VA makes no fucking sense), and I am told I am looking at at least a 5-6 month waiting period to hear back on my final findings, so about an 18-month period (much shorter than whatever bullshit timeline they put out there in the media. It is so ridiculous that I don't even remember what they said at this point).
The most irritating part is that I am blessed in that I don't need the money from disability (I actually plan on donating much of it to Veteran's charities. People I tell this to call me silly, but fuck them because I am fortunate enough to make enough income to be able to do so), but I do need to get some kind of disability rating percentage to have maximum access to VA programs without having to disclose my mental health issues to my employer via my own health insurance because if you don't have certain disability ratings they act as if they are an actual healthcare provider and go through your insurance.
Bottom line: VA workers: Good. VA outside of the individuals working for it: Bad.

$SOURCE$
http://gawker.com/ptsd-and-me-true-stories-from-military-veterans-1167107848
$TEXT$
I am a VA patient. I served in Baghdad for a year in 2006 (during the civil war that precipitated "the surge")
I started going to the VA for counseling after getting tired of drinking, breaking down, fighting, and generally feeling like I wanted to strangle someone at all times. That was 2009. I took the counseling seriously because I had a new girlfriend that I didn't want to subject to my breakdowns. I was satisfied with the care I got for the most part. But then I applied for VA disability and things changed.
Just before I applied for disability, I started law school. By that time I had my PTSD under control through anti-depressants, avoiding certain topics on TV and radio, limiting my drinking and going to a pet store when I sensed a breakdown instead of a bar. After two years, I finally got a response on my disability application. It said that my PTSD/"Adjustment Disorder" was not connected to my military service.
I was furious. I have never been shot at in my civilian life. I have never been blown up in my civilian life. I haven't lost an "adopted" child to a suicide bomber in my civilian life. And I haven't had to listen to a man's death over the Med-Evac frequency in my civilian life. All those things happened during my year in Iraq, but my PTSD is probably just related to my years working at UPS or something?
What's infuriating is that they approved me for back and knee disability (which I do appreciate. They could just as easily say that was a result of working for UPS for six years. Instead, they approved that but denied the thing that is most easily connected to my deployment: PTSD.
And I'm one of the lucky ones. My application process only took two years. I don't have permanent deformities. I've been able to overcome the stress of that year, but its a work in progress.
