$SOURCE$
http://woundedveteranspouse.blogspot.com/

$TEXT$
 It has been awhile since I have posted anything, and I am hoping to revive

my blog. Since my last post a lot has changed. We moved from WA to Pittsburgh,

PA in October of 2011 to pursue better medical care for my husband. The

transition has been bumpy, but we are starting to get somewhat settled and used

to how things are here. It couldn't be more different here than it was in WA. In

fact, I have been compiling a list of the differences and hope to post it in the near

future. The VA care here has been SO much better than what we had in WA. It

has been good to see a positive change in my husband as far as his ability to

access more of the specialty care he needs. I don't know that I will feel settled

here though until we are in a permanent house that has the handicap access that

he will need long term, and right now the rental we are in is no where near that.

Regardless of this I am just trying to take things one day at a time, and hope that

our house in WA will sell sometime this year. This is the short version of what has

been going on, but I hope to write more soon.

$SOURCE$
http://www.armyreservistwife.blogspot.com/

$TEXT$$ Our tale spun wildly and filled the bleak pages of time,

Days went swiftly by and nights lingered long past the hand of which was longer.

It all changed so fast as if there were no today.....no yesterdays,

No memories to make us stronger.

Demons that stole their way home,

They dwelled in the darkest of hours and in the furthest crevices of your mind.

While they ate freely of what was left of my heart,

They devoured the soul of a man that once was kind.

I gave more than what was needed and placed you high,

Upon that silver lined pedestal that matched your beasts of burden and needs.

You reached out for help by lashing and finding blame,

But, I knew you were only searching for answers among the brambles and weeds.

You sought answers to the riddle that plagued you in the midst of anger and turmoil,

Questions that only left you blind to all and unforgiving.

The one thing that I could not fight against was hidden inside you,

Black, cold and unrelenting shadows that brought forth another being.

You spoke of seeing and walking among the hills of Hell,

How the higher being left you cold and afraid.

How the hourly torment continued in front of you,

How you exclaimed you would eventually sleep in the bed you made.

The conflict of moral obligations met those who had other plans,

Directions and means that you never saw an acceptable reason for.

You placed such high hopes in your final gallant return,

Only to find on that paved road home that you faced a much harsher war.

Casualties lay around like the discards of the Autumn winds,

As the wounded stood searching for the direction in which to point the blame.

Many you could not face without fear you made the wrong choice,

The unmerciful self guilt stemmed from those who desperately called to the saviors by

name.

Shattered dreams callously met you at every wink of dawn,

Whispered gratitude went unheard and fell scattered on the ground.

Once was, faced the brutal reflection that tears had left in the wake of night,

Blood was without warning blinded by the hurt you projected, was the only sound.

Judged by all man and not that of what you believed,

It sat stubbornly waiting out Father Time like that of rusted coffin nails.

Time ticking loudly as your faith and love slowly bled out,

Gently beckoning you with the promise of peace and safety from where the light hails.

Your fall to the bottom came so swift,

And I watched helplessly as your hands reached out but, didn’t want to hold on.

I reached out to grab you and pull you back from that dark corner, in which you preferred,

Only to find you slipped and the beast had triumphed and won.

All that is left is a cold steel heart,

Which remains upon my breast where your head used to lay.

A reminder of what was, what is and, what will forever be,

Now just a taunting memory that haunts me every day.

Now I find I must face my own mirrored fear,

Thrown among the unanswered and broken pieces of what used to be.

I lie awake in the silence that loneliness and heartache provides,

Trying to understand all that you just couldn’t see.

I smile sometimes when you still come around,

Whether it be in dreams or a forgotten memory.

I cry when the pain twists my heart into pieces,

Reminding me of the pain you must have felt and we just couldn’t see.

Now as I lay thinking of a suitable place of honor,

I wonder if you found the peace of which you sought for so long.

I wonder if you feel me like I feel you,

And if you have finally forgiven all that was wronged.

Sometimes I wake with tears wondering how I could let you fall,

Even when the spoken promise whispers to me that I held on as long as I could.

I often think of you when the unrelenting hand passes the witching hour,

And of how forgiveness suddenly went from never to should.

I miss the way you laughed with your entire being,

A sound which had become a faded thing.

I miss the way you called me mommy,

I miss the smile your presence would always bring.

A fallen angel you thought you had become,

A used soldier of misfortune you once stated bold,

A man of conviction and great promises is always what I saw,

Among the heart of gold you kept so closely guarded from the cold.

Now I wander the mountain where you planned to retire your days,

And linger fondly over the good times and tremble still of those which were bad.

I still seek the answers you wanted and are now mine to bear,

All while trying to understand that you didn’t really mean to be so mad.

Broken I try to rebuild a life I of which I do not know,

And salvage what was left among the debris that we called our refuge.

A place now where you no longer belong,

A shelter of which my heart can heal from War’s fiery deluge.

Hopeful peace found you at the moment you broke,

A smile I heard, painted the etched lines of your face.

How I wished I had helped what you chose for redemption,

How I wished I could have seen the return of self grace.

There are days where I sit in wonder of the many facets of change,

How life is a fickle thing with plans of her own and one must pick up the slack.

Some days are filled with loneliness and some twinkle with hope,

Mostly these days, I yearn with the thought of how I just want you back.

A promise made a promise broke,

Seems to be the moral of our story with no boundaries that end.

But the promises that were made by both of us,

Still be the empty garden that I will tend.

A rose for the love that grew without fail,

A lily to remind me of the strength you gave when I had none.

Water to calm that burning flame you called a soldier’s burden,

Will be the chosen way to say goodbye by your sons.

As the stones that roll sing about unwanted truth,

I whisper a lullaby of which you would always lean in to hear.

I say a prayer every night in hopes that peace wrapped you in its arms,

Hoping that loved ones past were now near.

Saying goodbye was always a phrase of which we never said,

You said it meant that you weren’t coming back and that would never be true.

I find it hard now to spill forth the false words that mean forever,

It was the one thing I never learned how to do.

We will carry on as I promised,

Although it will never be the same again without you here.

A promise I will somehow keep in the same earnest fervor as they were spoken,

I will fulfill the wishes for the children you held so dear.

I’m so sorry for everything that went wrong,

How I wish we just could have simply had a chance.

But Life isn’t without it’s takings we learned,

And sometimes you’re left with no choice but, to take the lead in the dance.

I hope that someday I will see you again,

Laughing and telling me how that water gave the prize you fought for.

It gives me comfort knowing you will be there,

When my time begins to knock at the door.

I promise I will keep trying,

No matter how hard it may seem to do just that.

I will place the words into the world as promised,

In hopes that someone can be saved from their world you said was black.

You planted seeds that I am forever grateful for,

Ones that grow every day and on their way to becoming ones you would be proud of.

Ones that miss you terribly,

As we watch your stars twinkle above.

I don’t know if I can say a parting out loud,

It seems to be my biggest challenge to date.

How does one say I love you with all the pain surrounding it,

And get the point across that I have become to hate.

I know that I must learn to let go and say farewell,

Finally closing a chapter that was still unwritten and due.

I know I must learn to set you free now,

But you must learn to let go of me too.

Fly away now, my once fallen angel

And find your own way that you so desperately seek.

Lay down your guns, mighty warrior, and open your eyes

Life’s heavy shackles have broken and now you are finally free...............

$SOURCE$
https://www.blogger.com/profile/16280283528451638315

$TEXT$

I am the wife of a wounded warrior. This season of my life started November 21, 2007,

the day before Thanksgiving. My husband was deployed to Iraq and my family had all

went to my sister's house for the holiday. My mom, sister, and I were making pies when

my cell phone rang. Little did I know that my entire life was about to change. My husband

had been critically injured in Iraq. Thus began this season of my life. We are now three

years into this season. We have all changed in many ways. Each day we try to embrace

each other for who we are now and not dwell too much on who we used to be. Some

changes are not so good, but many are definitely for the better. Just recently, we have

started talking about the positive changes that we notice that are a direct result of this

traumatic event. I now know that my passion in life is to help other wounded warriors and

their families. There are many needs that are not being met and it is my hope to help fill

in some of those gaps for others who are traveling this same road.

$SOURCE$
http://loving4ptsd.blogspot.com/?zx=88dd6b9063cba3b0

$TEXT$
I am so f***king angry right now. Why the hell do I put up with this shit? Look, it's

one thing if you want to pick on me and let your shitty PTSD out on me. I can handle it. I

have to handle it. But it's another when you constantly take it out on things that are

important to me. Like my pets. Don't get me wrong, he never actually hurts them, but he

doesn't know how to act properly with animals. He thinks he can treat them like little

stuffed toys that are there for his amusement. But I've had my cats since they were 6

weeks old, and I never have treated them like that. I have never had them hiss at me or

bite me or cower in front on me. But he constantly is doing things to them that piss them

off and because they are innocent animals, it pisses me off to no end!!!!

What it really comes down to is that if he does actually "care" about anything, then

nothing can hurt him. If you don't let something love you, then you can never be hurt by it.

So what better way to do that then to push things anyway just enough so that you won't

ever feel anything for them.

I am so angry right now. I could seriously throw something at him just to get him to leave

me alone!!! I asked him to leave but he won't. He says I should leave because he pays

the rent. That no one is making me stay with him. That I should just pack up my shit and

leave him because "we have been together too long, and he doesn't need this shit

anymore". He doesn't need this shit anymore??? REALLY??? HE DOESN'T NEED THIS

SHIT ANYMORE??? WHAT THE HELL ABOUT ME!!!??? I NEVER ASKED FOR THIS

SHIT IN THE FIRST PLACE. I never asked to fall in love with a man that suffers from

PTSD. That suffers from things in his past that he can't ever change. I mean when we

were younger, we didn't even live in the same country. So why is it now I have to

continue to suffer through everything right along with him?? Why me? I grew up normal,

in a normal home with normal parents and friends. I'm sorry that didn't happen for him,

and if I could change it I would, BUT I CAN'T, SO WHY DO I HAVE TO FIGHT THIS

FIGHT TOO?

I hate you PTSD, I hate you, I hate you, I HATE YOU!!!!

$SOURCE$
http://thecaptainswife96.blogspot.com/

$TEXT$
It's been a really great month. I've made some changes in my life and I am going

to continue the trend of living a healthier, happier life.(shhhh, I am snacking on caramel

popcorn) It has been 11 years since Chris was wounded. I have met some really amazing

people along the way. I have tried to freely give to others that came behind me in hopes

they would see that although life can change in an instant, it can still be full of love,

forgiveness, hope and more. I have decided that I can no longer keep up with all the

negative forces in the caregiver world. We do not want to be identified by what the war

took from us, but by the way we held on tight and overcame every single thing that was

thrown in our face or said we could/would never overcome.

I can stand before you and say I am deeply grateful that I married a man that never quit. I

have heard people say he wasn't wounded enough. I heard people say he is too

motivated. I have heard some pretty absurd things...Chris has stood tall and taken it and I

am SO proud that he is my partner in life. After 20 years I am still madly in love with that

man.

We will hold on to those that have become our family and also choose to move forward in

life. We all know that there will be bumps and you know we will always be here for you.

I am changing my blog to focus on my family and being positive.

I have started back to work and joined a GREAT team. I am looking forward to the future.

I wish you all the very best in life. You deserve it.

$SOURCE$
http://infantrywife2004.blogspot.com/

$TEXT$
 I've sat here all day asking my self what exactly hope means...by definition hope I

can admit I have felt hopeless several times this year, between the huge cut in our

income to fighting the VA for the husband to get his pay fixed all the way to worrying

about my mom's health the past few weeks. It's been a rough year for our family and yet

we've made it through because we have hope that we will get thru it with each other.

A week ago I received an amazing phone call from Hope for the Warriors...through the

help of some amazing donors I will be getting a workshop built so I can move all my

wreath making stuff and crafty supplies out of our home. Making wreaths help

supplement a small portion of our household income so to have a space designated for

this is huge! I can admit I cried when I was told that this was happening! I also did a lot of

over thinking and felt guilty because I didn't think I deserved such an amazing gift. As

most of us in the Wounded Warrior community we also know of a family in a much worse

situation and we want to help them. That's why I love this community and all the

wonderful people who help us.

Over the next few weeks and months I will be updating everyone with pictures and blogs

each step we take thru this amazing journey. I am extremely Hope­ful that 2016 will be an

amazing year full of hope and joy!

$SOURCE$
http://www.war­relatedillnessandinjury.blogspot.com/

$Take a deep cleansing breath. . . slowly exhale while counting to five. . . here goes

nothing.

I have been thinking since the CBS piece was released that if we are truly going to give a

"face" and "voice" to caregiver mental health that perhaps we need to start openly

sharing what it looks like inside our heads and bodies. Bring a flashlight, it's dark in

there.

Why not hang my mental health issues on the clothesline for all to see? It's time to start

addressing what I see in me, my children, and the community of caregivers I serve. If

we're going to give our fellow caregivers a voice, we have to first be that voice in the

world, and until we are ready to do so, we have no business talking about it.

Please realize as you read this that I am baring heart and soul not only to the reading

audience, but also to my children, our families and friends, my spouse. . . who knows I'm

crazy but does not always know the depths.

I have been medicated for depression and anxiety for years. Long before my husband

was injured or I became his caregiver. I'm not new to this, but never has it been as bad

as in the past few years. Perhaps you've seen the Cymbalta commercial that says,

"depression hurts." Boy, does it ever.

If not for the external pressure to appear in the world every day, I might just stay in bed.

Ok, that's not entirely true. I always get out of bed. In fact, I haven't had a good night's

sleep in years. Each night we battle Sean's nightmares, sweats, pain, insomnia, snoring,

and constant kicking due to Restless Leg Syndrome. Add to that my own fatigue,

insomnia, and crazy dreams. A few years ago my doctor prescribed several different

sleep medications. While most of them helped me fall asleep, none of them could keep

me asleep. A very low dose of Seroquel was the only medication that would help me

sleep through the night, but I spent every day like a zombie and we had issues with a

child sneaking out at night because I couldn't hear her. Plus, when Sean needed me or

was having a nightmare I was unable to help him. I try to nap, but usually something

disrupts me or I don't feel like I have gotten enough rest when I wake. I normally sleep

for two hours at a time, some nights I get up after the first two hours because there is no

falling back to sleep.

I have vivid claustrophobic dreams where I am climbing stairs or ladders and the walls

start to close in on me, or I need to climb through incredibly small openings and mazes.

The dreams started after several traumatic incidents occurred during Junior High. They

are triggered by stress in my life and I wake up in a panic. If I feel trapped or cornered, if

I am in a small space, or if Sean tries to hug me at the wrong time, it sets off feelings of

panic and need to escape NOW.

There are days when I cry uncontrollably for no apparent reason. No matter what I do,

my emotions come spilling out and make a huge mess. I am much better at repressing

my feelings. Avoiding. Pretending. Eating my feelings. Just sit and not do.

In contrast, I have developed several OCD tendencies and my mind will not rest while

that piece of fuzz is on the floor, the glass is on the counter, or the sink needs to be

wiped out. I clean. Then I clean. And I clean up after that. I make lists. I check them

off. I make more lists. I make lists that include the words, "check other to do lists." I

cannot stop my brain from rehashing what I need to do. I vacuum and think about when I

will need to do it again. I go into the bathroom to make sure it is still clean. Toothpaste in

the sink? My heart races and I start to sweat. I *just* cleaned that sink! I know it's

irrational. I can't stop it.

Driving has become horribly difficult for me. My driving anxiety started while Sean was in

Iraq after I encountered several mishaps on the road and drove through lots of nasty

weather. In the years following my anxiety has gotten worse. The day before we must

be on the road I start to think of excuses not to go. I wish for something else to come up.

I secretly hope one of us gets sick. Driving causes me not only stress and tension, but

results in anxious itches, headaches, and extremely heightened sensory sensitivity. I can

feel the seams in my clothes. A lose v­neck shirt makes me feel like I'm choking. My

toes go numb. I get a twitch in my back. My heart races and my mind rushes. I fight the

urge to throw up. When we arrive at our destination I am completely exhausted and my

body aches.

While waiting to board a plane this summer, my body had had enough. People, noise,

exhaustion, sensory overload. As we boarded the plane and sat in the very front row, I

broke down. I started crying uncontrollably. Everyone could see me. My daughter tried

to calm me, but her touch only made me bristle. I couldn't get to my anxiety meds. I was

shaking and sweating and my skin was on fire. I felt trapped and frightfully exposed as

every person boarding that plane walked by. I wanted off the plane. Just off. I ran

through scenarios in which they would have to let me out. Sean finally asked the flight

attendant for a tissue and she returned with a stack of rough airline napkins. Upon

reaching our destination we had to get into the car and make a six hour drive home. I

threw up on the curb before getting into the car.

A trip to buy groceries now brings me to the brink of panic. It starts in the parking lot. I

am instantly crabby when searching for a parking space. I curse at people in my way or

holding up the line. Once inside, I start to sweat. My chest gets "fluttery" and I feel

lightheaded. I snap at those with me. I want out. One day there was a random beeping

noise coming from the electronics department. It persisted throughout my shopping and

seemed to get louder. By the time I reached the check­out lane I was feeling highly

agitated. There was person in front of me and suddenly a lady came up right behind me.

She was very close and I was trapped. I have never had that feeling before. I felt like I

would not make it out of the store. I could not use my self­talk to logically explain to my

body that this was a physical reaction to a stressful situation. My mind was racing and it

felt as if my heart would come out of my chest. I kept looking around for a way out of that

line. It did not occur to me to ask her to move or let me out of the lane. My breathing

was very heavy and I left the store breathless and uncertain exactly what had happened.

I talked on the phone with a friend until I was calm enough to drive home.

I have grown weary of my waitress face. That fake smile, pretending that everything is

fine. Trying to radiate the joy and strength that I do not feel while wanting to vomit, cry, or

simply crumple to the ground. When faced with social situations I go into teacher mode.

I smile, talk, and meet all the required social norms. When the pressure is too great, I

retreat into my phone so I can tune out my surroundings. Although we had many exciting

travel opportunities this year where we could appear relaxed, the reality is the majority of

those interactions were painful. I made sure we took the appropriate smiling pictures so

we can remember the happy times from the past year. Inside I never felt fully relaxed or

happy. It takes constant energy to appear normal.

My online support groups have made it easy to hide. I don't have to be real. It's quite

easy to "smile," and "heart," everything. While I care deeply about my fellow caregivers,

it's all too easy to send (((hugs))) and pretend that my life is fine. Fine, fine, fine. There

are no crazy irrationalities, paranoia, guilt, or anxiety. I can appear normal, while inside I

am frantically waving my hand and screaming. Please hear me.

My doctor and I have discussed the physical manifestations of my depression, anxiety,

and stress. Besides the dreams and panic attacks, I have memory issues, difficulty

concentrating, nervous twitches in my eyelid and back, physical pain in my joints,

migraine headaches, GERD, and most recently a fun batch of cold sores. She told me to

reduce the amount of stress in my life. The problem is, I am now having problems even

when things around me are calm and secure.

Since I am a certified caregiver through the VA's Caregiver Program I qualify for mental

health services. Last month I started with a new therapist. We talked about a variety

of coping skills including mindfulness, deep breathing, and visualization. It was hard not

to roll my eyes. In the past seven years every member of our family has been in therapy

at some point. We have literally been there, done that with every technique under the

sun. However, I want help, so I agreed to keep an open mind and see if I can learn from

her. I want an instruction manual. I want a road map. What I get is 50 minutes to get

worked up and emotional and then be sent on my merry way for a month to cope on my

own. It does not feel like the help I need.

As I sat crying through this month's session we talked about the two issues she feels are

causing me major pain. The past seven years have held overwhelming losses: the

rejection by "friends," our careers and associated relationships, our relationship (as it

was), children (grown up), sense of community, and my father's death. I am also not

finding fulfillment in my life.

(The following is in no way intended as an insult to Sean and as always he is fully aware

of what I am writing.)

Every aspect of my current life is directly related to Sean. I left my career to become his

caregiver. Without a job or children at home it has become how I identify myself. "What

do you do?" "I stay home with my husband as his caregiver." To combat that loss of

myself I signed up as a volunteer with Family Of a Vet. Even my volunteer work revolves

around being a caregiver. My social outlets are with members of the military and their

families. We define ourselves by our occupations. Without one, who am I?

I am tired of being a Wounded Warrior Wife or WWW. I am tired of being a caregiver. I

am tired of it infiltrating every corner of my life.

My mental health issues are invisible wounds of war, too. I'm paying in a different way for

his service. It is taking a toll on my physical, mental, and spiritual health as well as his.

It's impossible to stick a hand up and say, "I need." But I do need, and even though he

needs more, I need, too.
